---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: UI Basics Technical Blog
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-13
labels:
  - E1
  - BrowserHistory
  - WODs
---
 
Before starting my first recorded attempt of Browser History 1, I looked through the intructions and went through all the steps I knew how to do. The only troubling part was
creating the table of contents with internal links, but I was curious to see how the WOD process would go whilst recording and being under a time restraint, so I went ahead and 
attempted it anyways. Of course I got stuck while creating the table of contents, so after going past the DNF time I stopped my attempt and watched the screencast example. After learning
how to create internal links within the document I attempted a second time and was successful with reaching the Av time. However, afterwards I realized I didn't narrate my process because I
was so focused on getting below the DNF time so I had to redo it again. Interestingly, this made my third attempt much harder because I had to concentrate narrating while quickly fulfilling the instructions.
Although narration was difficult, following the instructions was easier since I reveiwed the readings beforehand and went through the process already with my previous attempts. My advice is to fully review the
readings pertaining to the WOD to succesfully complete them within the Av or Rx times.

Browser History 2 was the easiest to accomplish in my opinion. It was really fun to be able to manipulate the colors and fonts of the webpage to make it look more appealing via the .css
file. It took me two attempts to reach Rx time. One problem I encountered was the fonts not loading within the document. I wondered why that was, and after playing around with the
file I found out it was because I didn't capitalize the "O" in "Oswald". I was suprised that something that small would inhibit the font to not display, so my advice is to "sweat the small
stuff" when coding, because whether it's a missing semicolon or a capitlized letter, it could be the difference between something working or not working at all.

Browser History 3 was the hardest for me. It took me like, six tries to get just Av rating. I now think back wondering "why did it take me so much tries?", and I think it was 
because I was overconfident in my html and css skills from Browser History 2. Looking at the instructions, the request seemed relatively simple; order the segments into three
columns and make a horizontal navigation bar. However, once I began practicing with the index and .css files, I had no idea where to start. Before doing Browser History 3, I skimmed through
W3Schools.com's CSS website layout page and thought I got the gist of what to do. In reality, I didn't and just got fustrated throughout my attempts. Also, the style.css file wasn't updating the changes
I made to the layout of the index.html, and if it did it was very slow and after restarting the http-server. The changes only updated quickly when I viewed the index.html using the local file path. 
I'm still unsure why this is. I was only able to get within Av time after consulting the screencast example and practicing using the various elements many times. This excercise
made me realize that I have a long way to go before I even become somewhat proficient in using html and css.

Looking back on my experience doing the three WODS, I think most of the problems I encountered came from my own carelessness and lack of thought/planning. Therefore, I reccomend
reading the assigned material, understand the methods and functions behind the various codes/elements that will be used, and engage in thoughtful and logical reasoning when following the instructions.



