---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Assignment 3 Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective BLOG
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-12-18
labels:
  - Assignment3
  - Evaluation
---

### 1. What was accomplished in the project as compared to what was planned?

I think Justina and I accomplished the general vision we had for the project in terms of design, like having a navbar that welcomed the user when they logged in and a having a different "look" for the website in comparison to our previous assignments. 

### 2. Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?

There are some shortcomings with the project. I think the biggest one would be the inability for a user to register an account on the website. For some reason when I tried registering an account on our website via the class web server, a "permission denied" would pop up. This doesn't happen when I run the website with node server.js in VScode. Another shortcoming would be the mailed invoice, since I couldn't figure out how to mail an invoice string along with it (even though we had an example on the ITM website); therefore the user just receives an email saying "Thank you for shopping at Heart Depot! Your order will be shipped within the next business day".

### 3. What was your biggest project risk and how was it managed?

I think the biggest project risk was combining both of our codes into one, working website. We were both working separately on different aspects
of the website and when we would meet, it was tricky implementing each other's codes into the website while ensuring everything still worked. To manage this, we decided that I 
would host the main copy of the website and when Justina would complete part of her section, I would take them from her GitHub and add it to the main copy. 

### 4. What is your assessment of the overall quality of the system?

Hmmm, although I do think there is a lot of room for improvement, I do believe that we tried our best. Out of 10, I would rate the overall quality a 7/10.

### 5. What is needed before this system can be placed into operation?

The registration and mailed invoice definitely needs to be fixed before being placed into operation.

### 6. Describe what you are most proud of about this project:

What I'm most proud of about this project is that.... it exists (lol). What I mean is, just being able to work with Justina and create a website 
is awesome; I know that if I showed my past self in August what I've learned and done now in December, she would be like "Woah! That's cool". Thinking more about it, 
this is why I changed my major to MIS - to learn and gain skills in an area that I have no knowledge in. Also, there were *many* moments throughout the project where I wanted to give up so bad, but Justina's positive outlook and Professor Port's help allowed me to keep chugging along; so thank you guys!

### 7. Describe what you are least happy with this project:

I would say that I am the least happy with some of the bugs that are still in the webite and wasn't able to be fixed in time. I wasn't able to figure out how to generate the different product displays using one page, so we stuck with just having three separate pages instead to display them. I'm also unhappy that the registration didn't work ( I should've tested out the website on the class server earlier) and that I wasn't able to figure out how to send the invoice inside the sent email.

### 8. Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown:

Justina did fantastic with the looks of the website, especially the index page. We both gave this project our best effort and I'm grateful for her positive attitude that kept
me sane/motivated throughout the project.



