---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Checkpoint Assignment 3
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-12-03
labels:
  - Assignment3
--- 
Checkpoint A:
Describe your design for your site's shopping cart. That is, will it be a separate page that the user can view and edit, or 
will it be integrated into the product pages? If so, describe in detail how this will work on your site. Provide several examples of using the cart.
 
Our shopping cart will be a separate page that the user can view and edit, similar in style to the invoice. 
There will be a checkout button on the bottom of the shopping cart, and once clicked will take the user to a login page. Once the user logs in, 
they will be able to view their invoice, click submit and get a message that an email has been sent to them confirming their purchase. The user cannot 
reach the invoice without logging in or registering first. 
 
Checkpoint B:
Explain specifically how you will use sessions to manage your shopping cart. In particular, what shopping cart data will 
be stored in the session, what data format will be used (NOT what data type, but the format like with the data format used for your registration data). Use code 
examples showing what data structures (such as arrays and their keys) you will use to manage the shopping cart data and how they will be used in $_SESSION.
 
I’m not sure yet, but I remember from our class that it would be useful to use the default session.
We’re planning on storing the user’s session data (aka the products they want to buy) in a database or file. 
 
Checkpoint C:
How will you avoid access to your application when the user has not logged in or registered? What are the particular security concerns you must address?
 
We intend on organizing our application in a way that asks the user to login before proceeding to the invoice from the shopping cart. After 
logging in and confirming their user information, then they will be able to access the invoice and complete their order.
 
Checkpoint D:
Upon a successful login, how do you provide personalization in your UI? Explain how you did or will do this (paste code if necessary):
 
We will implement personalization by accessing the data that stores the user’s account information after logging in. Once they are logged in, there will be a 
text message that says “Thank you for logging in, (blank)”. The blank part will access the user information and replace it with their respective “Full name”. 
 
Checkpoint E:
If you are working with partners, how will you split up the work in your team so that you are working in parallel as effectively as possible? That 
is, who is doing what and when?
 
Justina and I will be working together. We will meet often to discuss our application design and consult each other when adding new pages.

Checkpoint F:
How are you approaching Assignment 3 differently than Assignment 2?
 
We are approaching assignment 3 differently in the sense that we are starting it earlier in comparison to assignment 2 and there will be a lot of communication 
in regards to the process of putting the project together.

